foreign
welcome to Workshop Wednesday
um this is Wednesday after Wednesday we
get your questions answered talking to
Sasa experts BC sales making sure we are
week after week working with you to make
your company stronger so this week is
Dave Kellogg we have been working on
this session since November right Dave
easily yeah yeah I used to say that
these sessions happened rain or shine
and Dave was the one exception to that
because we lost power the last time we
were supposed to have this session
yeah I try to do it from a Starbucks we
lost power for three or four days after
a storm and uh it didn't work out the
Starbucks was too crowded and the Wi-Fi
was dying so we had to cancel so thanks
for flexibility of course no I
try to take it from a Starbucks we
definitely
um had to make this work
absolutely great well
now that we have finally made it to this
session want to ask a few warm-up
questions to get to know you a little
bit better
um how would you define your day-to-day
role
sure so I do a couple different things
uh I'm an independent consultant um and
I work as an eir at ballerton Capital
and I do the same work in both
capacities which is I work with early
stage startups on matters of go to
market you know my background I was 10
years of CMO at two or three different
companies depending how you count I was
a CEO of two different companies uh and
I've been on the board of 10 different
companies so so I have what I like to
call mostly a 360 view I don't quite
have everything but I can look at things
as a marketing hat on I can look at
things with a CEO had on it could look
at things that the director had on
um and that's that's the perspective I
try to share
great so you're super lazy is the moral
of the story yeah yeah
all right and then our second question
before we get things kicked off what
project are you working on today you are
most excited about
sure that's hard but uh I'd say look
that I love the balderton work because
it lets me work with all their portfolio
companies right so so I get to work with
instead of that the dozen or so
companies I work with directly I get to
work with their portfolio and it brings
in all kinds of really interesting
challenges and um and both within
traditional assassin on boundaries a
little bit of BDC in some other areas as
well so I'd say the balderson project is
fun uh it's it's good being the eir it's
day a week so it's not too much work
back to the lazy thing uh but it does
give me a fair amount of diversity of
experience plus as you may know I lived
in Europe for five years
um I'm a bit of a Europe file and it
lets me help European companies come to
the U.S which is a big challenge for
them
great okay well
already are getting comments in the in
the chat that they love Kell blog by
Dave so I think this session is going to
be great um lots of interactivity so
we'll let you kick things off super well
thanks for joining everybody it's great
to see you and uh sorry for the delay
last time but it was definitely uh out
of my hands when we lost the power for
for four days which is the longest power
failure I've ever been a part of
um so today we're going to talk about
the seven things all founders should
know about sales you know I started my
career as a tech support rep my first
job out of college was uh 26 000 a year
tech support rep for a relational
database
um so so I'd say I started kind of at or
near the bottom of the software industry
and most certainly not in sales and I
got interested in sales and marketing
because I saw how powerful it was
because the company I worked at was one
of the original Three relational
database vendors and we sold for a
literally a fraction of Revenue like 0.9
times sales uh whereas our archival was
Oracle who is you know now worth
hundreds of billions of dollars so so
and the difference was to me sales and
marketing so that's why I got interested
in this stuff because at Ingress we had
uh literally a future touring Award
winner was our CTA oh so this is like
technology clashes with sales and sales
one
um so I wanted to be part and learn
about the thing that uh was more
powerful
in my mind so
um so I spent a lot of time trying to
help Founders and product oriented
Founders in particular understand sales
uh because in some ways I'm just taking
you through the Journey that I myself
went through
um so thanks for joining us today the
material here is derived largely from
Project I did for Ballers and capital as
you mentioned I worked there a day a
week as an eir and one of the things I
do for them is produce content and we
built this basically kind of everything
Dave knows about sales and dropped it
into this nearly 100 page guide uh that
represents most of my views so so check
it out if you're interested in this the
title is quite deliberate I wrote it for
product oriented Founders so if you're a
20-year sales veteran it may not be
anything new but but the audience is
supposed to be somebody who wants to
learn about sales who's not from sales
and also the founder perspective of how
to manage sales so there's there's a
little bit more in there about how to
manage a cro than there is about how to
be a great seller but but that's on
purpose
so our format today in this Workshop is
grief intro which we did I'm going to do
about 20 minutes of presentation and
then we'll open it up for Q a uh and see
where it goes
so here are the seven things I think
Founders should know about sales and
we're going to do a slide on each one so
just to go through them quickly first
you have to do it most people know this
now but the only way to learn about
sales is to go out and sell or not the
only but the best way second customers
buy solutions to problems this is an old
theme we'll talk more about it third
sales is 57 listening we'll drill into
that one but a lot of people think sales
is talking and in my mind the best
sellers are great listeners they're good
talkers but they're amazing listeners
um the best sellers are curious about
everything you know there's a ton of
sales methodologies out there but one of
my favorites is called selling through
curiosity and you can literally derive
everything sales Sales Management
um forecasting all from one word
curiosity just be curious
um which by the way is why some
non-sales people are such good sellers
like I remember when I was earlier in my
career the top seller at the company and
the CTO were the two most effective
people on sales calls and I viewed it
like The Andromeda Strain line movie
like what do these two people have in
common like why is the CTO so good at
selling I know why the salesperson is
but the answer was they were both really
curious and they wanted to solve the
customer's problem and everybody else
had a bunch of baggage in the way like I
want to make a deal or and like no these
two people had a pure motivation I want
to understand your problem and solve it
and even though they're from opposite
sides of the spectrum they were both
really good and what made them good was
curiosity uh number five ask open-ended
questions easy to say very hard to do in
my experience uh number six manage the
sales process is a quid pro quo critical
for product oriented Founders because it
doesn't come naturally but but you're
investing money in a deal and you should
get back things in return for that
investment so the whole process is a
quid pro quo
and then finally don't talk about
competition unless directly asked
um I think companies do a lot of
research on competition to understand
their differentiation and they're a
little too quick to want to share it so
we're going to go through these seven
things now one at a time the first is to
you know get out there and sell and look
if I see some marketers on the call as
well get yourself on sales calls listen
to sales calls if they won't invite you
if they won't invite you find out why by
the way because they should uh want to
invite you
um but either way get out there on sales
calls and or just listen to them on mass
because sales calls are where kind of
corporate
pitchmanship meets field reality
um and like as I've told people
you know I'm a big believer in
conversation conversational intelligence
systems you know that list of the sales
calls like Zoom or gong or chorus or
Germany
um and I like these tools so much
because the first time you listen to
them you want to crawl under your desk
and cry right literally you go oh my God
I can't believe my people are saying
this
um and then over time you say well wait
a minute now we can coach them and we
can change the messaging and God our
messaging it sounded so good in that
corporate meeting room doesn't sound so
good when you're actually delivering it
to a customer so get out there and sell
try your own messaging if you're in
marketing if you're a product oriented
founder experience what it's like to try
and convince somebody uh to use your
system this lays the foundation for
hiring your first VP of sales and it
should go without saying but really
helps fundraising if a VC asks you like
how many sales calls you've been on
lately and the answer is not many it's
not a good thing right they want to know
you're out in the market selling
basically especially in the early days
your kind of Chief sales officer as well
as chief executive officer and founder
number two uh this this one point causes
a lot of confusion but but customers buy
solutions to problems a lot of sales
people think that customers buy products
right and the answer is no they don't
they buy a solution to a problem the old
fancy way of saying this was a Harvard
Professor named Theodore Levitt who said
the customers buy holes not drill bits
which I always thought was interesting
right in the end they want the end not
the means
um the modern way of saying it is
Clayton Christian which is customers
hire products to do jobs for them it's
the exact same thing right it said in
different words but but nobody wakes up
in the morning and wants to buy your
product they wake up in the morning and
have a problem they want to solve
um and this is particularly difficult
for platform providers for app sellers
it's a lot easier because you've got an
app built to solve a problem so it's
it's more natural to sell it as a
solution to a problem for platforms it's
much harder if you're selling like I
sold an XML database system it wasn't
built to solve any problem uh in
particular uh and you had to go map it
you had to go you know it was kind of on
us as the seller to say we're good at
solving this problem do you have this
problem and let me tell you how we can
solve it and tell you how other people
solved it so your product is a means to
an end and your marketing should
emphasize either the end of the B the
means or the end as a function of
strategy one of the more interesting
questions here is that I've worked with
some startups that as they create their
category they have to say here's why you
should buy a thing in this category
right like a galatian here's why you
should buy a data catalog it did a lot
of work with them
and at some point the conversation
switches and customers call them and say
I'm going to buy a data catalog tell me
why to buy yours and you need to be able
to switch your gears at that moment and
say things have changed you know
congratulations we've created a category
people are calling Gartner who to
evaluate and we need to kind of switch
from solution mode in that case believe
it or not to product mode they're still
buying the product to solve a problem
but the sales cycle may change because
they may say I'm going to solve this
problem you've convinced me I need to
buy an entry in this category and now I
need to know why to buy yours as opposed
to another one right so it's kind of a
subtle point but I think it's important
because I think sometimes vendors don't
recognize these inflection points along
the cycle so that's what I that's what I
mean when I say marketing why they want
to emphasize either the end or the means
because in the in the early days you
want you may want to talk about the end
here's the solution you're going to
solve and then when the market gets hot
ironically you talk less about the
solution and more about why your product
is the best to solve it so kind of crazy
but look in sales it's universally good
advice to always focus on the customer's
problem in marketing we have to deal
with this but in sales if you just say
what's your problem how could we solve
it it's always safe
uh the third principle to know so so the
first was uh
well the second was customers buy
solutions to problems versus you got to
get out there and sell the third is the
sales is 57 listing so
um thanks to tools like gong we now have
data on how much sales people talk and
I'm sure you all know this by now but
but sales performance is generally
inversely correlated to how much the
salesperson is talking right I.E talk
less win more deals talk more win fewer
deals so uh per gone at one point they
need to bomb a blog post that said that
the perfect ratio is 57.43 uh the old
sales adages you have two years wide
mouth use them in proportion uh so so
roughly supported by the gong data right
66 33 instead of 5743 but but close
enough
um and in my experience the best sellers
are great listeners they ask clear and
purposeful questions they listen to the
answers they don't interrupt so
important if you're listening to sales
calls listen for times when your sellers
are interrupting that's that's really
really bad because you kind of lose
forever what they were going to tell you
um and they asked thoughtful follow-up
questions what one of the tricks I teach
people I'm not interrupting is just take
notes and take a corner of the page and
write down every question you're about
to interrupt and then go back and see
how many you actually end up asking and
it's scary because I'll write down 10
questions I almost interrupted somebody
for and maybe I'll only come back and
ask two so um it's a good little trick
uh tools like longevity and chorus can
provide listen talk ratios as well as
many other benefits so the real question
the real issue here is you need to be a
listener great listeners don't interrupt
they listen to the answers and they
think about their next question
uh next one number four the best sellers
are curious uh I alluded to this earlier
with the Andromeda Strain example but
they're curious about everything right
the customer as a person the customer's
business the problem they're trying to
solve the impacts of solving that
problem how they've previously tried to
solve it what are their Solutions
they're looking at now how did you hear
about us why are you considering us
right they're curious literally about
everything
um and most people will answer a lot of
questions if you just start by saying
hey I'm curious why did you guys bring
us in hey I'm curious how did you try to
solve this problem before and the part
that many sellers get correct is to be
curious about the problem the part
they'll often miss is curiosity about
the process right like hey whose budget
is paying for this and what documents do
we need to sign to get this sealed you
know I'm curious have you ever done a
deal of this size before I'm curious you
just got a new CFO have you done a deal
and gotten the deal approved the new CFO
in place I'm curious the person who
needs to sign this paper on March 31st
are they going to be around that day
right so we can use curiosity not just
to the problem domain about
well not only about the person which I
think is very important what are your
motivations for wanting to solve this
problem what happens to you do you get
promoted you get to become CFO right if
we fix this problem uh curious about the
customer curious about the problem
they're trying to solve and the but the
part people Miss as I said is about the
process
um and as anyone will know who's managed
sales oh a deal slipped surprise like we
can't close the deal because we didn't
have some piece of information and my
answer back to the founder perspective
here the CEO perspective is I pay you
not to be surprised right I pay SES to
be experts on the product I pay
Consultants to be extra deployment I pay
success people to make customers
successful I pay you to never be
surprised so why were you surprised
again
um and I think it's very important
because that's a you know sales has the
right to do a lot of things but they
don't really have the right to be
surprised so when somebody gets
surprised I start to drill into how did
we get surprised who did we talk to what
did we ask and look sometimes companies
get bought the day before your deal
closed they couldn't possibly have known
but there are a lot of other cases where
it's just a simple lack of curiosity and
you could have known that the deal was
in Jeopardy had you asked more questions
so uh one of my favorite ones on these
is the very last question in the bottom
so a lot of sales people when they the
customer goes you know what you're our
vendor of choice
sales person goes yes
um and and that's a great time to be
curious really why I'm curious that's
fantastic news why are we your vendor of
choice right because you may need to
remind them of that further down the
sales cycle if the deal is not closing
so uh the best sellers are curious about
everything
you know part of curiosity is being able
to ask open-ended questions and
everybody talks about this but again
this is the beauty of the conversation
intelligence tools you can listen to
your sellers and you can see if they're
asking open-ended questions like hey
tell me about the other vendors you're
evaluating versus close-ended questions
like are you evaluating other vendors
right and I'm sure you all know this
with the definition of a closed-outed
question is it kind of can get a
monosyllabic answer right so so yes or
no is the answer of the question it is a
close-ended question it doesn't invite
conversation it doesn't invite the
customer to talk more and as a great
seller if you want the customer to talk
more you kind of need to lead them to so
so it's always okay tell me about the
other vendors you're evaluating it's not
have you established evaluation criteria
that's yes no it's yeah I'm curious how
did you arrive at these well that's an
incredibly important question in sales
right not just what the evaluation
criteria are which is a little bit more
closed ended things one through five
live but how did things one through five
become the yardstick against which
you're measuring Solutions of the space
right so does this problem have any
Downstream impacts well first it always
does right so it's a really dumb
question it's closed ended and we know
the answer before we ask it but but the
other one is tell me how this problem
impacts others in the organizations if
we can't roll the financials up quickly
and and get you know Financial reports
produced within two weeks what happens
oh oh really well the board gets delayed
oh what happens it delays the audit oh
what happens it delays
essentially public earnings calls right
those impacts ultimately are the
problems that the business is trying to
solve so so number five is this part of
being curious which is number four we
need to learn how to ask open any
questions and I will tell you it's so
easy to say this and it's really really
really hard to do so that's why I advise
that you listen to your sellers you
listen to sales calls and you kind of
you know pinch yourself every time you
ask a closer to question
um because it I don't know why it's so
hard it's just really really hard
um and some people are very good at it
but it's not a skill that you're born
with in my mind it's a skill you have to
train yourself on
so uh next one manage the sales process
is a quid pro quo you know
I have a couple of tricks I used to do
one is I actually bought a couple of one
ounce gold coins and once in a while the
sales kick off I would drop two gold
coins at the sales reps hand and I would
get them back don't worry but but I'd
say that's what an opportunity cost me
so every time I give you an opportunity
I'm giving you two gold coins because my
cost per opportunity at the my last
company was around four thousand dollars
so to get a stage two opportunity right
that made it through the whole system
and it's ready to get handed to a
salesperson I'm literally giving you
what cost me two gold coins and I want
you to treat it like that right because
a lot of times they don't they don't
call back or they're managing 15 of them
and they don't treat it with the respect
it's due right so I always think about
the money I'm investing in these deals
right it cost me two to four K just to
start the sales cycle in many SAS
companies might be might be a lot less
could be could be more
um and then now I'm working with a
customer and every time I send in a
seller and an sc that costs me money
right oh they want to do a custom demo
if that's part of your sales process
that costs me money right we want to do
a big meeting with CFO that costs me
money and I encourage you to to actually
go ask Finance to figure out how much
you spend in sales and marketing to get
a deal total sales marketing cost per
deal and then talk to people about that
like use the gold coin analogy because
you need to use that with the customer
when the customer says I want a custom
demo you don't say oh we we do my joke
is we say oh
you know my name is Dave I'm an sc well
what's your job and they say well I do
custom demos for people who might buy
our software and the person goes well I
might buy your software so can I have a
custom demo right and that's a terrible
framing right we need to frame this as
look I need to ask you a bunch of
questions to make sure we think it's a
good enough fit right there's a mutual
selection process this is not about us
being a supplicant asking you to buy our
software this is a mutual selection
process you are selecting us as a vendor
potentially we are potentially selecting
you as a customer we're investing time
and money in exploring whether there's a
fit here so every time you want me to
spend time and money I want something
back right and that's the quid pro quo
so if you spend two hours with us on
requirements we can build a customized
demo but I'm not going to go build it
just by looking at your website I want
to talk to you for two hours about the
requirements of what you want to see and
then we'll go build it if we build a
customized demo can we meet the CFO
because right now we're just working at
the VP level with the CFO ultimately
owns this project
um and you've asked me to spend ten
fifteen thousand dollars building this
demo I in return I would like to ask to
meet the CFO can we do that
right
um some sales people think of this as
keeping power in the relationship I
think of it more practically as just as
give gets and and more practically as I
am spending money at each of these steps
so if I go through a whole sales cycle
and lose that cost me 10 20 30 40 000
right depending on how Enterprise you
are but it can cost me and that's why I
want you to know that number because if
it's in your head you're going to act
like it you're gonna be like if you walk
up to the altar with me and we don't get
married that cost me forty thousand
dollars
um so I'm gonna ask at every step what
I'm getting in return
um by the way this same principle
applies when you're selling your company
right I want to give you as much
information as I think it's likely that
you're going to do a deal right it's the
exact same process whether you're
selling a deal or selling the company
You Gotta Give commensurately with what
you get and commensurate with what you
think the odds of winning are so uh at
the right time this obviously also
includes asking for the order if we do
this final step that you're asking me
for will we win the deal right some
people call that a trial close but but
it's the same thing it's just a special
case of quid pro quo every step I'm
asking for the next thing
um very important doesn't always come
obviously to product oriented Founders
good sellers understand this but if your
product oriented founder we need to walk
through this and kind of explain how
much we're spending like we don't owe
these people a demo we don't owe these
people a meeting right we need to
qualify them figure out if they're going
to buy our software and if we don't
think so by the way we should tell them
just say look we don't think this is a
great fit here so if you want to explain
to me why how we can win this deal
um I'll invest the time and money but
otherwise I'm not going to so so can you
explain to me why I should keep working
with you I've done that it can work very
well by the way because especially when
you're wrong they will come back
emphatically and tell you no no no
here's why you need to keep working with
us
um the last Point here in the seven
rules is don't talk about competition
unless asked you know we spend a lot of
time hopefully understanding why we're
better than the competition like my
first job at marketing was a competitive
analyst so that's all I did
um and the occupational hazard here is
that you know so much about it you might
want to talk about it uh and the answer
is you don't want to talk about it there
are many risks if you talk about the
competition and selling I I literally
have been on sales calls where a
competitor would say we're better than
XYZ and the customer would say I'm sorry
who's that and I'm literally like oh
great we have 1-800 try Brio why don't
you just call him here I'll dial it for
you right we're literally introducing
customers into a sales call uh which is
terrible so you can accidentally
introduce somebody I have a rule to fix
that you can appear competitor Focus Dot
customer focus this quote was actually
from a lost report of host analytics
when I ran that company and my sales
people were too competitive focused and
the customer said all they talked about
was us all you talked about was them
terrifying horrible the last thing you
want to hear as a CEO right that your
sales force is giving the impression
that you're competitor focused and we're
just trying to tell you why our products
better than the other persons and the
other people well guys they seem to
actually focused on me and trying to
solve my problem so Lord knows you don't
want to end up hearing that um you can
seem afraid that gosh maybe the other
company is the market leader you talk so
much about them that you kind of
convinced us that they're who you're
worried about and that means they're the
leader and I like to buy from leaders
because it's safe right so you can
literally there's a thousand ways to
hang yourself because when you're
talking about the competition so in my
mind literally every second I'm talking
about the competition I put like a
mental red flag or yellow flag in the
corner of my you know visual space and I
just have it up and I want to get that
flag down as quick as possible
um because I know that I'm in a danger
zone and I can say something that I'll
regret uh the last is obviously if you
see something incorrect that damages
your credibility so here are the three
rules I've established to avoid these
problems one generally don't do it put
up that yellow flag for every second
you're talking about competition two be
sure everything you say is true and
defensible and then three only say the
name of a competitor when it's been said
to you first I will literally not say it
you'll have to pry it out of my mouth
but if somebody finally says you know
we're looking at competitor XYZ then I
am now permitted to say their name it's
a great rule
so
um those were the seven ways I'll just
summarize them but it's get out there
and do it second customers buy solutions
to problems not products so they buy
holes not bits they hire products to do
jobs for them however you want to say it
sales is about two-thirds listening the
best sellers are curious I mean if
there's really only one thing I take
from this whole this whole session it's
be curious about everything
um ask open to questions a part of that
Curiosity manage the sales process as a
quid pro quo you're spending money you
deserve to ask give get give get and
then just on the competition don't talk
about them unless directly asked and try
to give I'll finish this with
like I started my marketing career in
product marketing
um and I did and well actually I started
my marketing career in competitive
analysis and then I did product
marketing and in both disciplines I felt
like my job was to give the shortest
possible answer so if somebody asked
about how a complex technical thing
worked I wanted to hone my answer down
to the head of a pin why so I had time
to ask more questions so I had time to
listen so to me that's products
marketing job it's actually to create
time for more questions and to create
time for listening so that's why you
want your competitive answers to be
compact it's why you want even
potentially complex feature function
answers to be Compact and finally it's
why as I often say God created white
papers
um which is if you're getting very
technical questions that take a long
time to answer the best way to compact
that answer is say hey I've got a white
paper on that you seem really interested
in that topic it's 15 pages it's really
good knock yourself out I've got a few
more questions right so uh we'll end the
session there and switch to q a about
Caitlyn so back to you that sounds good
to me if you want to take your slides
down
um to make this a little bit more
communal thank you so much for running
through that I know running through
seven different tips in 20 or so minutes
is quite the feat
um
moving on to the Q a portion we can
practice I think it was number five and
ask some open-ended questions here
um if you do have a question please put
it in the chat I will be asking
um if you want to ask the question out
loud afterward
um we are getting a lot of questions
about presentation where you can find
this afterward we do live stream you
will be able to find this entire session
on YouTube after
um on the softer YouTube channel
all right our first question
um comes from Jason
um last name CTO
hey Dave thanks for presenting great
presentation so just had a question what
would be the like the top five red flags
to easily identify or be able to
identify of a new sales resource in the
first 30 days
okay that's a good one let's see top
five red flags new sales hiring
um
okay five's a long list to generate off
the fly but I'll do my best
um the first one happened the first one
is non-attended it's like not showing up
so why because in this day and age they
may have another job right this actually
happened to me once a couple years ago
but I had a rep who decided that getting
base salary from three different
companies uh was a great way to make a
living and I think the work from home
that that was a rare problem when it
happened to me but I think work from
home made it happen more so anybody
who's not showing up for any reason and
they're new I'm you know they miss the
onboarding they miss a kickoff they
missed something huge red flag
um it might just be their bad hire and
don't show up it might be they have
another job I don't care which but but
you got to show up in sales right 80 of
success is showing up so people who
don't show up big problem
um
I think
what would be another big red flag
I'd say not this is more advanced but
it's a non-adaptation like if you hire
somebody and all they talk about is what
they did at their last company at some
point you have to say hey this isn't
your last company this is our company
and this is how we do things here uh
ideally you filter for that in the
interview process right I I think I'm
terrified by the by the number of people
actually it's also just human nature but
if you make a lot of money doing
something you tend to want to do it
again right like try to argue with a
billionaire about you know how to run a
company which I have done and it's
difficult
um you know the answer is I made a
billion dollars doing this we're going
to do it my way and it's like okay
um so the same thing if I made a lot of
money doing this Approach at my last
company I have a tendency to want to do
it again right I'm kind of Pavlov
trained
um and I've literally seen people do
things that make no sense whatsoever but
but it's almost impossible to reason
with them so I think somebody who's not
adapting to your world odds are they're
not going to adapt it's not an easy
correction right I can't correct a
dishonest person who's not showing up or
a lazy person somebody who's late by the
way in sales to me it's unacceptable it
should be unacceptable everywhere but I
tend to tolerate it but his sales it's
the one place right your job is never to
be surprised and never to be late
so if you can't manage those two things
it's a huge problem
I would tend to say look I ran the
onboarding program it was objects for
many years people who don't treat
onboarding seriously once in a while we
would fire somebody directly out of the
onboarding program and that was a great
collaboration between me and sales
because I'd literally just say this
person has done terrible they didn't
take the program seriously they didn't
show up they failed in the exercises I
think we need to make a message that
this onboarding program matters and if
you're going to not take onboarding
seriously at this company we don't want
you here and in that particular case I
was running marketing so the salesperson
didn't have to do that it wasn't their
program per se but I think that's also
really important in terms of a fifth one
I think it would just be somebody I mean
I would listen to calls and just
I'll call it the cringe test but if you
want to crawl under the desk when you
listen to them on calls you should
probably just get rid of them uh because
because you can't fix that
um so uh those are the the you know do
they sound good on sales calls are they
are they doing good things because look
I'm a big believer we can teach people
things but if you've hired somebody
who's you know a 10-year experienced
seller and they don't know how to
conduct themselves on a sales call I
don't think that's a good investment of
your time to try and fix it you're
probably better off just finding someone
else
thank you Dave
great that was a great five off the top
of your head
um impressive okay our next question
comes from David if you would like to
ask it out loud feel free to do so
yeah hi Dave how are you um quick
question Dave just in relation to your
views on assisted free trials we have an
ATV about 15K and probably would cost us
about I'd say for a customer discussed
person to set up a customer uh about two
hours three hours Max and I'm just
interested to see what your conversions
what you think conversion rates might be
for free trials for that level of
investment
um so I'm reluctant to do the math on
the fly but but my experiences that
should work I think that's a high enough
ACV so it's 15K ARR correct
yeah 15K error area right so here's the
way I think about it if you want your
CAC ratio to be 1.5 you get to spend a
total of 22.5 in sales and marketing
expense to win that deal right so now I
won't give you an answer but tell you
how I process it I always go back to the
CAC ratio I just start there and it's
like if um how much am I willing to pay
for a 15K deal well the ratio says
I should be willing to pay 22.5 K in
total and this is the hard part sales
and marketing expense so I can tell you
we shouldn't be going out the thousand
dollar dinners in New York for a 15K
deal right one of the more common
problems in the early SAS where you'd
hire somebody out of a big company it's
just doing 150k deals they're doing 15K
deals it's like no the dinners are out
the window all the perks are out the
window can I afford two to three hours
with somebody yes I think you can uh
just I just know that intuitively
because I work with some companies at
ASP similar and I know that model can
work
um in terms of the conversion rate I
don't actually know
um and I wouldn't want to throw a number
out there because I tend to be very
careful about numbers
thanks Dave thank you
great okay our next question
um comes from Dan what are some good
verbal click bait tips you can give
while on a sales call questions that
pull a customer in to ask more questions
uh
uh questions to pull a customer in to
ask more questions
um
I'm not sure I mean look I think many
good marketing campaigns ask a question
so in general I like marketing campaigns
that ask a question like for example I
don't know are you paying too much for
your conversation intelligence right or
are you paying too much for your data
provider or are you like and I would use
those as examples of spaces that have
commoditized so take a space that used
to command a high price point because it
was unique and now say it's kind of
commoditized there's 15 people who do it
then I think it's a great question I
remember one of my favorite funny
headlines was if db2 was the answer what
was the question which I I've always
liked that style uh if you like the dry
humor right so so if this is the answer
what was the question again
um that one's fun but uh if you want to
pull people in look I like questions I
like marketing campaigns with questions
that make people think in general I like
slide titles and questions
um so I think questions are really good
I don't have any kind of stock answers
to me it's all about the situation like
I mean I'll give you an example just
because I hate to be so abstract but one
company I work with closely over the
years is Elation is on their board on an
angel investor I know them real well and
in the early days of elation the
question would be how much time are your
data scientists spending looking for
data
right because data scientists make two
hundred thousand four hundred thousand
five hundred these are expensive
resources and if they're spending lots
of time trying to find data if I can
sell you a software package for 100k and
you've got 10 or 20 of those people I'm
going to save you a ton of money by
cutting the amount of time they use data
in half and it all starts with the
question which is how much how much time
your data scientists spending looking
for data so that would be an example of
a question that if they say oh no then
you but you can now fire off 20 more
questions how much they make and what do
they spend their time doing what do you
want them doing and do they enjoy that
activity oh no they don't oh okay so so
not only are they unproductive but they
might actually quit and then you have to
hire a new one how much does that cost
right so so you can lead down a path of
questions
great great example there
um our next question comes from Meredith
if you would like to unmute yourself
hi um thank you for uh for calling on me
um I have to admit that I'm I'm getting
like a little bit angry in this meeting
because everything you're saying is I
cannot write fast enough I actually work
in conversational AI so thank God this
is recorded because
um I'm like having a uh meta whatever
it's called a metaphysical reaction but
my question is this so um uh so if we
don't have a CFO and so the CEO is
everything you've said in terms of uh
which I'm probably going to get talked
to after this call
um is every is very product um driven
very um technical uh CEO and he also
manages um CFO uh piece so we don't have
one all of our uh error is from last
year no uh new from this year and so
arriving at that two to four K and what
it costs to start the process
um I don't have some of those aspects
that go into the calculation so how do I
begin to think about that
um aside from the actual uh equation
itself like how do I begin to do that
and sudo take on that CFO role even
though I hate math
um begin to think about that so that I
can ask these questions
so
I understand sorry for talking fast I'm
from New York and no no I'm from Jersey
I'm in Jersey
so uh I go fast and I was trying to
summarize stuff so
um thank you but in any case look we
don't need a lot of Finance to answer
that question because really that that
two gold coins is actually demand
generation cost in my experience just to
be more precise so when I use the CAC
ratio is total sales and marketing cost
but when I calculate the cost of an
opportunity I do it on demand generation
spend why because it's a variable cost
not an average cost right because I want
to know if an opportunity cost me twenty
five hundred dollars then I know to get
10 more cost me 25 000 and and to get 10
more opportunities it's a marginal cost
argument right I don't need to hire
another product marketer I don't need to
hire another VP of marketing I don't
need to build another website right so I
don't really want an average cost for
the CAC ratio for investors we want to
talk about the average total sales
marketing cost when you're talking about
the cost of an opportunity you actually
want an incremental cost so that makes
the math much easier because all you
have to do is look at how many
opportunities were generated by
Marketing in a quarter and how much did
you spend on demand generation in a
quarter you just need two numbers
um hopefully you can get those two
numbers and then you can say look we
spent 50k in Japan generation we
generated 20 opties so they cost 2.5 k
each
um and there you go
thank you so if that's the answer then
do you want to be my CFO yeah
you know I'll tell you one thing about
CFOs that are I love the fact that you
can rent them right because there's a
lot of positions you can't rent at a
startup like you can't rent a VP of
product you can't rent uh you know it's
you can't really rent a CMO you can get
lucky sometimes but but CFOs are highly
rentable so my advice would be if you
need a piece of a CFO around go rent one
hey Dave it's Jason a follow-up question
thank you when you think about CAC the
very Atomic version of CAC which is what
does marketing spend to generate an
opportunity how do you think about
models where a lot of the pipeline is
from free is from word of mouth is from
viral how much credit how much leeway do
you give marketing to blend these
numbers
um so you can hit the overall goal
yeah so I think so the short answer is a
lot uh partly because I'm a marketing
person as you know so I'm uh you have a
sympathetic audience but this is why I
think
there's an increasing Trend right now
which is despite all the automation
despite all the tracking and the
attribution systems we have people are
increasingly going back to a technique
that we used 20 years ago which is how
did you hear about us right and they
literally asked that as a survey
question at the top of the funnel and
that's where you're going to find that
out they're going to say oh I just heard
of you a reputation word of mouth and I
think marketing should get credit for
Word of Mouth I mean unless you know I
can think of other examples if you have
a massive Community or a massive open
source Community right okay maybe
somebody else gets credit for Word of
Mouth but
um I like to take all the data that we
actually risk drowning in in these days
right but all the martech all the
automation you can drown in attribution
data and not really understand what's
happening
um and I think the life preserver is
just ask the customer right and then you
can diff that and just say yeah I know
that this was dark traffic or direct
traffic so we don't know where it came
from right so it's hard to attribute to
something but but if I got somebody
who's dark traffic and I asked them how
they heard about us I now know so so I
it's kind of funny to see the the cycle
go because like in 1990 that's all we
could do you know and here we are back
30 years later like we're doing it again
because we almost have too much data
great Jason while we have you we had
someone in the chat ask your opinion of
number seven not talking about
competitors during sales calls do you
want to talk about that at all
oh man I want to let Dave do the answers
but I really thought this was one of the
best things I heard I want to I'm gonna
turn that into a post I'm looking back
in the day I've been reflecting I'm
dating myself too Dave but when I look
you know you know how we got profitable
at Echo sign back in the day was our
marketing spend was Zero I need to write
and how did we do it well we had a viral
product we had word of mouth but you
know what happened every customer then
DocuSign spent 40 to 50 million dollars
at the time in marketing and they would
go in and well who else you looking at
you know the Reps couldn't help but send
us these leads and they sent us so many
leads right uh you almost had to like I
don't know whether they violated your
rules and immediately started blabbing
competitive stuff and explaining why
their product wasn't localized or why it
didn't work on mobile
um there's probably a lot of that but
even they just handed us these leads up
and then we had a great sales team that
could close them that's the real risk
right if you do your platter and you
bring it up we had a sales team that was
optimized on ripping those deals out of
the heart of your competitors so I I
think I think it's really interesting
because if you're too clever and don't
mention competition you look like a dumb
rep right you're not helping the
customer right you have to be thoughtful
but uh going too far really does
generate a lead for number two doesn't
it yeah totally so so and this is to be
clear on point number seven there the
it's not never talk about the
competition I'm trying to over correct
right because I think the natural
tendency is to talk too much about them
I talk about I mean like I said my first
job as competitive analyst right I I I'm
I'm ready to talk about competition but
I don't want to overdo it so I kind of
use that to keep myself honest
um so so yes because I agree with you
you can appear evasive right like if you
go too far not talking about the
competition or if you say our
competitors are ignorance and apathy one
of these you know high level or you know
these high-level indirect competitor
quotes uh you you start to lose
credibility so so I do believe you
should talk about the competition but
there's a time and a place to do it the
other thing I'd say for you on who else
gives you leads when you're a runner-up
because a host was kind of a runner-up
of the the finance market and Gardner
became an amazing lead Source because
people would call Gartner and say we're
looking at adaptive who else should we
look who else who else should we look at
right and Gardner and say oh so we
actually got an amazing it was the first
time in my career because otherwise I'd
worked at leadership previously uh so
you'd worry about that last but if
you're a strong runner-up in a category
the analyst will actually send people
your way because they want to evaluate
multiple Solutions
but don't you think just on it there's a
couple of Discovery calls that I think
especially Founders were not comfortable
asking but one is like if you're not
gonna ask I'm not gonna bring up
competition I think you do want to ask
what Solutions are you looking at to the
problem right here you've got to ask
what Solutions and you got to ask if
it's budgeted too that's one that we get
uncomfortable asking about but it's a
great question too you got to know where
you sit on the budget Continuum
absolutely no let me be clear on this
um because I don't want to go so far as
don't talk about competitors unless
directly asked right that's that's the
rule I try to espouse and then the other
one is look in Discovery you absolutely
have to know who you're competing with
but but I wouldn't say are you
evaluating Echo sign I would say hey
tell me about open-ended question tell
me about some of the other Alternatives
you're evaluating oh really well I'm
curious why did you decide to look at
ecosign I'm curious why you know in my
case why did you decide to look at an
airplane
um so so so yes but but just basically
the rule is there because I'm what I'm
trying to compensate for is somebody who
spent 20 hours studling the company
petition and knows everything about why
we're better and it's just so eager to
tell somebody and that's that's how you
get yourself in trouble you really do
great looking forward to that blog post
um our next question comes from Brett
um I'm sure you're excited to ask after
that Segway oh well yes
um uh Dave um uh and Jason as always you
two are just so wired in as a former
Gartner analysts where I spend five
years
um my favorite of your list is actually
uh the way I phrase it is shut up and
listen because I had to unlearn from
five years of talking with Enterprise
government cxos uh you know David asked
a question I would push mental play and
I go in analyst mode and I would tell
them well the following are three things
and then you've got two sub-variants and
names and you you're you know and I did
my reading and I know your future
architecture is blah blah blah and
versus as a Founder I need to just ask
you good questions and shut up and
listen the question then becomes I have
tried
um a zillion ways seemingly form the
sales team to learn that skill
I have failed horribly uh where either
the I have been I have been with senior
Executives where the sales team has to
sit outside in the kids room where they
say I want to talk with Brett one on one
and I say can't my sales team come they
go no they're not invited but when they
are invited I literally have had the
sales person and you grab my computer or
grab their computer crafts the table
flip it up rip into the sides and drone
on and meanwhile the person just started
to say well our major decisions about
our data architecture are in this guy's
like groaning on so how do we you know
first of all thanks for Gartner yeah no
I um yeah uh uh and uh I I no longer own
any stocks so if you want to pay Gartner
go ahead but uh how do we convince our
sales cop you know team
you know because I tried solution
selling I've tried bringing in people uh
on all you know half a dozen really
great sales teachers and the sales
people go out and they just want to
crash the party with their laptop and
show the slides to the next meeting
yeah okay that's a hard problem
ultimately to me I think it's sales
leadership problem and if you're the if
you're the sales leader it's your
problem I guess
um but but if you have a sales leader
you need to talk with them and say this
this needs to stop I mean this is back
to what I said at the beginning I'm
worried if these are experienced sales
people and they're still doing that you
probably just need to get new ones right
um if they're new sales people and
they've just been raised wrong right and
these are not ingrained habits then I
think there's a chance you can teach
them and the best way if you are running
sales then the best way you can teach
them is uh despite by doing it yourself
go out and do a couple sales calls and
record them and play them and then play
yours right and then this is again back
to the conversation intelligence
but I love playing sales calls back for
people and you just hit pause and see
right there where you interrupted they
were about to tell us you know well the
real reason I want to buy the system is
no wait let me tell you about our great
texture like do you do you understand
what they listen to what they said and
what you interrupted right what didn't
you learn right I think you can train
them by listening to calls doing group
listening sessions and just say guys
while you were talking what didn't we
find out or go do some deals that we
lost because we didn't know things and
say every time you're talking you're
denying us a chance to listen you're
denying us a chance to learn something
this is back to what I said earlier we
have to get really good at Super compact
answers to questions because it gives us
more time to ask more questions
um that's why so I don't want you
joining on I want the next level of my
pitches I want you to do layered answers
so if somebody says why are you better
than the competition I would say it's
three things power deployability needs
of use
if they take that great if they say why
power great but it's a layered answer
I've built the marketing message into a
tree so if you ask me about power I can
tell you three reasons why we're more
powerful if you ask about reason one I
can tell you three this is about what
reason one but I built this layered
ternary tree of messaging that allows me
to I always call it peeling back the
onion and leaving threads hanging right
so I'm leaving if the customer cares
they're gonna ask but what do you mean
by power if they say I think their
competitors as powerful as you are great
they pulled that thread now you can
answer but but if you build a layered
message and you teach them the value of
listening by by analyzing deals we lost
because of stuff we didn't know or just
literally
uh analyzing sales calls and just saying
admit it 201 you interrupted the
customer and they're about to say this
and that was a critical piece of
information so and the other options
just get new sales people which I fear
maybe or like I said if these are
ingrained patterns you just may need to
go get a new Salesforce let me add one
thought Dave I'm curious your thoughts
obviously the answer to the question is
leadership right the best leaders they
do it all differently but they find a
way to train the team well enough that
fewer these issues happen right it's a
symptom of of not having the right and
if the leadership is you get some help
right find someone under you or with you
that's that's better at this I will say
one thing a lot of these issues and you
got to listen to the to the gongs and
the choruses but a lot of these issues
come I find when the sales reps aren't
really experts in the product they don't
know what to say they don't if they
really know you can have a very you can
have a great conversation but if you
don't know you immediately run into
competition you immediately run into
discounting immediately run into the
dumb three things and it's hard but I
find reps especially one's hired the
last couple years just aren't experts
enough in their own products how did you
get folks to be experts at Host
analytics that were not out of the space
how did you teach them to be experts
yeah so
um it's an excellent point Jason first
and second
here's how I would solve that problem I
I would make a standard deck
right here's our standard messaging and
then I would forbid people to use it
which which may sound absolutely
ludicrous but the benefit of the
standard deck is we knew what the
message was like we did agree on the
like this is our message and when we did
certification I would do it one-on-one
at a round table with a paper napkin
placemat and I would ask them questions
and they could use their mouth their pen
in the placemat but they weren't allowed
to use slides so if you can't deliver
the standard messaging by writing on a
tablecloth basically then you don't know
it because I think Jason hit a really
important Point people talk when they're
nervous
um so they're probably afraid and that's
why they're talking
um because if they're really calm and
confident they really want to win the
deal this is just us having conversation
around lunch and if I need a picture
I'll draw it on the place mat so so make
the standard deck but make it illegal to
use it and certify people I do a big
believer in certification as a short
answer Jason but what you don't certify
them on delivering 32 slides because
that's precisely what you don't want
them to do right if you certify them on
that that's what they're going to do so
you have to certify them at a lunch at a
lunch table I like it
right okay
um our next question comes from Kunal
hi Dave thanks for this
um you know we run into these uh great
sales reps we're just having a bad
quarter or two particularly in the early
years and how do you spot these and and
you know keep them on board and
encourage them
yeah it's a great question I think
that's the hardest question because if
you hire a VP of sales at a big company
I got to tell the story but they I had a
guy walk in and like well this company's
weak because if you missed you know the
class company I worked at if you missed
your number two quarters in a row you're
fired and we've got a bunch of guys
who've missed two quarters and I'm like
well if we fired every guy missed two
quarters in a row we wouldn't have a
sales force so we do we just shoot the
propeller off the plane right it might
feel really Macho and by the way when
you're the market leader in the you know
in the 1990s selling CAD Automation and
you do miss your number two quarters in
a row maybe in that situation you do
need a bullet right but in our situation
we're a 50 person startup everyone's
kind of struggling to hit their numbers
it's not it's not so simple in my mind
that you can't just fire sales people
especially in the early days get to 50
100 million things change but if we're
at zero ten twenty million and we're
still figuring it out in my opinion you
need to have some subjectivity in there
and guess where the subjectivity comes
from it's back to the cringe factor or
lack of it like literally would look at
guys who are missing their number and go
on calls with them and I have one
question am I proud that this guy is
representing my company the sky or gal
if the answer was yes I'm proud to have
you as my representative I would
actually try and cover you on Miss quota
I try to give you mbos because I
understand you're not going to stick
around by the nature of the comp plan a
lot of people might see that as weak
um because you know but that my old
Macho boss would see that as weak
Behavior but I just think it's a
necessary behavior in a startup that yes
you can judge people by the numbers and
you should clearly reward the performers
but if you're going on lots of sales
calls and this person seems to be doing
everything right and not getting the
right result
then I'd say you stick with them
um because because remember the
alternative you you fire them and you
have to hire somebody else and restart
the process right so
um it's not a universal hall pass you
know but but I do think it takes courage
to make that subjective call and I
literally will tell them a guy's name is
Mike I was like Mike I've been a bunch
of calls with you I know you missed your
number but I'm proud to have your
assistant company I like the way you
work with customers I like your answers
we need to win more so we need to figure
out why you're not winning
um but
but by the way in that particular case I
had him in a very rough patch which is
the other variable right he was in the
New Market patch I had existing
established markets you've missed your
quota in our established markets I was
far less sympathetic because I got 10
other people making theirs but you're in
the horizontal patch or the new patch so
so you have to discount it that way as
well
thank you
great we have just about five more
minutes I do want a flag that there are
a ton of questions in the chat I'm going
to try to get through as many as
possible in the next five minutes but
thank you for putting them in there
um sorry if we do not get to your
question but our next question does come
from Saeed if you want to unmute
yourself and ask
yes thank you very much Dave for the
presentation a big fan of viewers here
um when to move from founder let's sales
to hiring a sales force yeah like with
this currently and they would love your
input on this text so this is an answer
that took me a long time to kind of come
up with but it may be well we'll see how
it maps to your company but I I now
believe the smartest way to get a sales
leader is as follows get them very early
basically go hire an RVP super early
bolt them to your side for nine months
and then release them to go build a
sales force
um and the reason I said why do why is
each element of that important I want to
get an RVP level person meaning in my
mind somebody's managed 10 20 30 reps so
so that they're not managing 100 reps
they're not kind of a professional
spreadsheet jockey right they're they're
because in big Enterprise companies
right the sales leaders stop being sales
people in my opinion with all due
respect it's just a different job
they're not for fresh From The Trenches
so you want somebody who's a first line
manager or a second line manager
probably second managing 10 to 30 people
you want them loving being in the
trenches so when you ask them what gets
them up in the morning it's a spell of
gunpowder The Thrill of the deal being
in there right so and you say you're
going to be ibps sales
but you're going to spend six to nine
months bolted to Me Maybe six to twelve
we're gonna do everything together at
the end of that period you're going to
know everything I know about how to sell
a system and we'll have discovered a lot
together
and then then I can release you because
you know how to manage you know how to
build you know how to hire you know how
to put an infrastructure right the
mistake people make in my opinion is I
hire their first seller they spend six
to nine months bolted to that person and
then they see them build a sales force
but that person has no idea how to build
a sales force right you might get lucky
I've worked with startups that get lucky
and wow that that person took us to 50
million or 30 million never having
managed before but but my my solution is
to try and make your own lock hire
somebody who's basically got the
management Runway to take you to 20 30
reps they've done that already and then
you by just bolting yourselves together
do this mind meld with them and then you
say you're released go build for us so
that's my favorite answer of the
question there's probably a derivative
for for your case awesome thank you
our next question probably our last
question again sorry everyone is from
Marcio
thanks for for taking the question huge
fan of cow blog
um thanks uh what advice would you give
uh to someone uh thinking you know
working for a company that has low AR uh
in a product that's very fast moving
almost behaves like a b2c product
uh looking to up level uh to more of an
Enterprise audience on the marketing
side uh there are some new features and
functionalities that are going to come
in and they're going to be thinking
about uh selling it to to a you know
longer cell cycle higher ARR diabetes
what are some of of the advice you would
give to somebody running that that type
of marketing organization
so I've never been in that precise
situation
um but I'll tell you my my gut reaction
uh first ideally it would be darn sure
it's gonna work right like do you have
accidentally any bigger customers right
because even if you're running this low
velocity business if you have zero
bigger customers it's not a good sign
but but if you have kind of the grain of
sand in the Oyster right like you have a
couple that you got by accident or they
grew with you then we go understand them
so my first thing is understanding
people who are using the scale if you
don't have any it's much harder I view
the whole thing as an experiment if you
have a couple then it's less of an
experiment it's more like okay what is
it about this customer that made it use
us at scale what what features do we not
have right because we didn't build for
them that we need to have and how do we
prioritize them
um and then the marketing to me I mean
in the perfect world just because the
world is a very big place can we pick a
vertical can we pick some space where we
try to do this rather than Fortune 1000
Enterprises right because you can spend
a lot of money trying to reach zillions
of people at Fortune 1000 Enterprises I
would try to pick almost like a test
market right I try to pick a vertical
and it's really it's not that you care
about the vertical per se the software
may be completely horizontal but it's
that you you want to run an experiment
within a market and try and learn
something from it I think this wasn't
cool when I felt this way 30 years ago
but now I think people understand
startups are a series of experiments
everything you do is experiment you
might call it a strategy but but but
it's an experiment you don't know if
it's going to work right but you only
know if it's going to work if you have
10 people who did it already right or 10
customers doing it so so basically I say
think of those experiment design it as
an experiment which means if you fail
you learn something as well as if you
succeed you learn something so because a
lot of time the worst thing you could do
is run you know do something fail and
learn nothing right but at least we'll
learn hey we tried to sell this to
billion dollar companies in the oil and
gas sector and we had three different
people try it and we tried it for a year
if it didn't work I think we can rule
out oil and gas and if it did work we
know what to scale so think of it as a
series of experiments and the marketing
to me would then be targeted on that
because now you've told marketing where
to aim the Cannons it's the biggest
problem in my mind is a CMO where do I
aim the Cannons because if you want me
to aim at the fortune 1000 I can you
know it's been arbitrary amounts of
money firing lots of artillery and doing
very little damage so so try to give
them a place to aim at and you'll get
better results
thank you so much
and thank you everyone we started these
sessions at like 30 40 people and now
we're at like 120 every week so it's so
great to see you thank you Dave this was
a long time coming and the questions
were amazing answer is amazing
um thank you again for joining
thanks everybody for coming thank you
Caitlin for having me thanks a lot Jason
take care everybody of course we'll see
you next week with Back to Basics The
Playbook to investor relations see you
all then bye
foreign
[Music]